---
title:
description:
lang:
draft: false
permalink:
comments:
tags:
  - Newsletter
aliases:
enableToc:
cssclasses:
socialImage:
socialDescription:
created: 2025-09-30
---
**Dear colleagues,**

It is a privilege to share our inaugural newsletter following the launch of the INCOSE Middle East & North Africa Chapter—MENACOSE. What began as informal meetups among practitioners convinced that systems engineering must take root in our region has now become reality. Over recent months, our core team engaged with INCOSE, drafted the charter, recruited members, and met all requirements. I extend heartfelt thanks to all who devoted evenings, weekends, and expertise to make this possible.

**Startup Activities**

We have published our vision, mission, strategies, and membership value propositions on the [INCOSE MENA Chapter](https://www.incose.org/communities/chapters/emea-sector/mena) page, which will serve as our evergreen content hub. Work is underway on the working group provisioning process—the backbone of collaboration on chapter work products. We are also preparing the official chapter website under our secured domain ([www.menacose.org](http://www.menacose.org)), establishing communication and collaboration platforms, and initiating regular online meetings to connect members, host expert presentations, and expand outreach.

**Medium-Term Objectives**

We plan to establish an Advisory Board (AB) to support the Board of Directors in shaping and executing our strategic agenda. We welcome nominations of individuals— members and non-members alike—who bring diverse expertise and backgrounds.

**Near-Term Objectives**

In the next two quarters, we will launch two strategic working groups. The first will design a Sub-Chapter Framework to enable local leadership in tactical networking and outreach, complementing our regional strategic activities. The second will produce a White Paper capturing the current state of systems engineering practice in MENA and presenting a five-year vision for advancing it (Vision 2030). Both groups will be open to MENACOSE members.

The success of MENACOSE depends on the energy and engagement of its members. We encourage you to join our meetings, contribute to working groups, and share your expertise with the community. By participating, you will help shape the future of systems engineering in the region and ensure that MENACOSE becomes a vibrant hub for collaboration, knowledge, and professional growth.

With appreciation and resolve,

**Dr Maged Elaasar**.  
**MENACOSE President**
